Before the major copy pass, record or write Patrick's unpolished answers to these prompts:

1. What do couples most often misunderstand about what a wedding DJ does?
That they don't need to provide me with all of the music for the night but they are welcome to create a playlist to go off of as a guide and template. Couples will always ask if they get to select music or because they are hiring a DJ that the DJ does the selecting. Yes the couple will select specific songs for their ceremony, grand entrances and first dances but they can also select a good portion of the music that gets played during the dance party. 

Couples also misunderstand that since they have given me a 5 hour spotify music playlist that they've overdone it. I explain for most songs ill only be playing 2.5 minutes of each song and mixing them all together 

2. What are the first three things you listen for when the dance floor opens?
- If people come up and start requesting music right away.
- How the crowd is reacting to the music being played. Are they cheering? Is there laughter of enjoyment?
- The volume level. Is it sounding too loud, too low, just right? Is there enough mids, bass? Too much highs? 


3. Tell the story of a song choice that changed because of the room.
- It's always some rock song that will really ignite the floor and bring people out. It's always those curveball left field songs that all of a sudden everyones heads turn or ears go up and they instantly rush the dance floor. 

4. What makes dinner music work without becoming wallpaper?
Upbeat classics that get people tapping their feet and moving their bodies. Dinner music has to setup the dance party. Over the course of dinner the BPM, energy and volume should increase little by little so that by the time the dance party starts people are ready and you haven't put them to sleep over dinner. 

5. What do you check before anybody gives a speech?
I check to make sure the wedding co-ordinator gives the ok, make sure the photographer or videographer is ready, check the signal on the wireless microphone and that the actual person giving the speech is ready.

6. What is one wedding-DJ habit you never want to copy?
Saying stupid cliché shit on the microphone during the dance party 

7. When do requests help, and when do you ignore one?
Requests help when they are in the same BPM you are already in, they help when its a song the group had as a high school song or some kind of attribution to it where when they hear it, it has sentimental value and brings them all together. I ignore a request or ask for something else to be requested when I don't know the song, don't have the song which usually go together, or if I feel the request is going to kill the dance floor and doesn't fit the vibe.

8. What is different about working in Squamish or the Sea-to-Sky corridor?
I typically work with the same vendors and when you have working relationships with vendors it makes for a better experience all around. Most venues have outdoor elements or are fully outdoors so knowing the lay of the land is important. Some venues don't have power, some ceremony sites don't have power. It can be pretty windy, you can have a random isolated rain shower so preparing for all of this take knowledge of venues and what is needed at each one to have a successful event. 


9. What do you want a couple to tell you before you discuss genres?
Whether they themselves are big dancers. Because if they aren't big dancers then their genre choices don't matter much because it's what will the guests dance to. If the couple isn't in tune with what music their guests dance to then as a DJ I will always play to the crowd but more so observe what gets people excited to hear over dinner. I once had a couple from northern Alberta and they had put almost no country music on their playlist. The majority of their guests came from Alberta and were all big country music fans so it's a trade off for the couple. Do they want to hear their music that they like and not have their guests dance or do they want their guests to dance and have a good time. 


10. What is the nicest thing a couple has said that felt accurate rather than flattering?
That I genuinely cared about them and for their celebration to be a success.

11. What part of the job looks easy only because you prepared for it?
Knowing what kind of crowd you have and what songs will keep the floor alive. Weddings are truly about balance and knowing a vast array of music. You need to know all genres and pretty deep into each genre because if your crowd is going to only dance to latin, or country, or rock then you'd better know enough songs in that genre that are dance worthy and be able to mix them. 

12. What should a couple know before deciding whether you are their DJ?
That I am more than just a wedding DJ. I do private events, club events, personally curated music events so my taste in music is very broad and I do not just follow the pop charts and play from the regular 200 song wedding playlist. 
